In general, Wallets have feature limitations that can make them difficult to manage.
With the debug console,
you can gain access to additional features that are hidden from the user interface.
In this video, we'll cover three commands you can use
to explore wild information from the debug console.
We'll cover getwalletinfo, listwallets, and walletspassphrasechange.
These commands are extremely important when configuring Blockchain services.
First, we'll look at getwalletinfo.
getwalletinfo returns various information about the state of a wallet.
This is a helpful way to access wallet balances and other metadata.
Using the help function,
you can see that this will return details about the wallet name,
version, balance, and much more.
Try running this command for yourself by typing getwalletinfo.
As you can see, the name of my wallet is wallet.dat.
This is the standard wallet name and yours is probably similar.
It also shows that I've made
zero transactions and sadly that I have no money in my wallet.
If you've been playing around with your wallet and doing transactions,
it might show something else here, and that's fine too.
Next, we'll check out the listwallets command.
This command returns a list of currently loaded wallets,
meaning anywhere that you have available under your account.
Using the help function,
we can see that this is a pretty straightforward command.
It tells us that we'll get back a wallet name and provides a few examples.
Let's try this by typing listwallets.
What I get back is the same wallet.dat that came up using the previous command.
This isn't too exciting yet,
but it becomes more useful in cases where you start managing multiple wallets.
This will be common as you start building applications to test transactions between them.
Or if you have other reasons to manage multiple wallets for yourself.
You can also check to see that this is correct by navigating to your main bitcoin folder.
What you see here is the wallet.dat that's being read from the debug console.
Finally, let's look at walletpassphrasechange.
The purpose of this command is to change the wallet
passphrase from its current passphrase to a new one.
You might remember this passphrase as
the 12 word phrase you used when you originally created your wallet.
This helps you do things like recover
your wallet in the case that you forgot your password.
Using the help menu, you'll see that this command expects you to provide
both the old passphrase and the new passphrase along with the command.
I'm not interested in updating my passphrase right now so,
I'll leave this command alone.
I only wanted to mention it to show you that things like this are possible.
To quickly recap, we just walked through some of the details of
three helpful commands you can use related to wallets.
These commands were getwalletinfo, listwallets, and walletpassphrasechange.
These will help you manage wallets you create when building
applications or when checking out your own personal wallets.